---
date: "2018-02-09T14:27:15+00:00"
draft: false
tags: ["bitcoin", "donation", "opensource"]
title: "bundle thank-you - a donation system for ruby gems (and other package managers)"
---
<p>Nearly two years ago I’ve <a href="https://github.com/bumi/bundler-thankyou">experimented</a> with the idea of using bitcoin payments to tip open source projects. The idea is to analyze the dependencies of a project (by parsing the bundler Gemfile or npm package.json), extract donation information and send a “thank you” to these projects.  <br></p><p>Bitcoin is the perfect protocol for this. We can <a href="http://michaelbumann.com/post/143382258547/online-payments-transfer-value-instead-of">directly transfer value</a> and do not need any intermediary. The projects and users do not have to agree on a service provider (like paypal or patreon), no signup es required. It is implemented on a protocol level and not as a tool/service. <br></p><p>As a demo I had created a small <a href="https://vimeo.com/166398703">video showing the interaction and user flow:</a></p><figure class="tmblr-embed tmblr-full" data-provider="vimeo" data-orig-width="540" data-orig-height="331" data-url="https%3A%2F%2Fvimeo.com%2F166398703"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/166398703?title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0" title="bundle thankyou" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen="" width="540" height="331" frameborder="0"></iframe></figure><h3>How does it work?</h3><p>Thanks to the nature of Bitcoin transactions it is possible (and even encouraged) to send one transaction to multiple recipients (outputs).<br></p><p>bundle-thankyou analyzes the dependencies from the package manger file (Gemfile, package.json,...) and gathers the recipient addresses 
from the locally installed gems - thus no need for a central directory 
or similar.<br>
Then we the user is asked how much should be paid and a single transaction is created and published. Done.</p><p>Obviously one could envision any fancy user interface and features to
 do that.</p><h3>What the author needs to do:
</h3><p>The gem author adds a Bitcoin address to the gemspec (in the 
metadata field).<br>That’s all the author has to do.</p><p>Because the address is in the gemspec we can be sure it is the address the author/maintainer wants the money to go to.</p><p>The author could also decide to dedicate the donations to somebody 
else. For example the rails gems could say thankyous should go to 
RailsGirls or similar projects.</p><h3>What the user has to do:</h3><p>Use this tool and basically run bundle thankyou and pay the desired amount. The amount will automatically be split among all the used gems. <br></p><p>With Bitcoin becoming more and more popular it also gets easier for people to start using it. And it would also be possible to create a service on top of this “standard” that allows users to pay with credit cards and handles the bitcoin payments.</p><h3>Advantages</h3><ul><li>No signup whatsover</li><li>User and maintainer do not need to agree on a service (like paypal) to perform the transaction</li><li>No central directories and services</li><li>Based on existing tools (rubygems, npm, etc.)</li><li>Implemented on a "standard/protocol level" - additional service can be built and integrated. (like any existing bitcoin services, subscriptions, etc.)</li><li>Works internationally (not everybody has a credit card or can have a paypal account)</li><li>One transaction for multiple recipients</li><li>Usable in the moment where the user interacts with the gems (in the terminal running a bundle command)</li></ul><h3>Questions:</h3><p><b>Why Bitcoin?</b><br>It is probably the most broadly adopted solution. But any other cryptocurrency would be possible. <br></p><p><b>But I want to pay with credit card (or whatever else)</b><br>Bitcoin is used as a method/"protocol" to transfer value.</p><p>We could provide additional service (for both user and project maintainer separately) to better fit their needs - for example different payment methods, subscriptions, etc. For example card payments could be easily possible with services like Coinbase.</p><p><b>But I want to receive payments on my credit card</b><br>Again Bitcoin is the "protocol". There are already plenty tools out there that for example give you a visa/master card for spending the received bitcoins. Or bank transfers, or m-pesa mobile money payments, or....</p><h3>A comment about money</h3><p>I am very critical about the human perception of the "payment". I do not want it to feel like I've "paid" somebody for something.<br>The tone/message is super important and it should not be "payment" but a way of saying "thank you"... thus <b>bundle thankyou.</b></p>